WebVTT - general restructure to match normal API docs (#34034)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/webvtt_api/index.md

{{DefaultAPISidebar("WebVTT")}}

> **Web Video Text Tracks** (**WebVTT**) are text tracks that can be used to provide specific text "cues" that are time-aligned with other media, such as video or audio tracks.

Author: Works for me!

  <track kind="descriptions" src="descriptions.vtt" srclang="en" />
  <track kind="chapters" src="chapters_de.vtt" srclang="de" />
  <track kind="subtitles" src="subtitles_en.vtt" srclang="en" />
</video>
```

### Styling WebVTT in HTML or a stylesheet

You can style WebVTT cues by matching elements using the {{cssxref("::cue")}} pseudo-element.
This allows you to modify the appearance of all cue text, or just specific elements (if supported).

> **Note:** It is also possible to define styles in the [WebVTT File Format](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebVTT_API/Web_Video_Text_Tracks_Format).

#### HTML

The HTML and CSS for displaying the video itself is the same as for the [first example above](#using_the_webvtt_api_to_add_captions):

```css
video {
  width: 420px;
  height: 300px;
}
```

```html
<video
  controls
  src="https://interactive-examples.mdn.mozilla.net/media/cc0-videos/friday.mp4"></video>
```

#### CSS

This CSS styles all cues to have larger text drawn in red, with a gradient background.

```css
video::cue {
  font-size: 1.5rem;
  background-image: linear-gradient(to bottom, yellow, lightyellow);
  color: red;
}
```

> We then style text that is underlined and bold to be green and yellow, respectively.

Author: ```suggestion
We then match against text that is underlined and bold using the {{cssxref("::cue")}} to select the `u` and `b` elements, and then styling them green and yellow, respectively.
```

```css
video::cue(u) {
  color: green;
}

video::cue(b) {
  color: purple;
}
```

#### JavaScript

> The cues are also the same as in the other examples, but we've marked up some with underline and some with bold (which will be highlighted by the CSS above).

Author: ```suggestion
The JavaScript is the same as in the first example, except that we have marked up some of the cue text using `<b>` (bold) and `<u>` (underline) tags.
By default the marked text would be displayed as bold or underlined (depending on the tag) but we have used the {{cssxref("::cue")}} in the previous section to also style the text to be green and purple, respectively.
```

```js
let video = document.querySelector("video");

let track = video.addTextTrack("captions", "Captions", "en");
track.mode = "showing";

track.addCue(
  new VTTCue(
    0,
    6,
    "Styles: Normal <b>bold</b> <u>underlined</u> <i>italic</i> <c>class</c>",
  ),
);
```

First make all cues 1.2 times bigger than normal.

```css
video::cue {
  font-size: 1.2rem;
}
```

Then we style each of the tags above with a different colour.

```css
video::cue(u) {
  color: green;
}

video::cue(b) {
  color: purple;
}

video::cue(i) {
  color: red;
}

video::cue(c) {
  color: lightpurple;
}
```

#### Styling by class

The second cue is displayed just after the first one, and includes the same tags but they also have the class `myclass` applied.

```js
track.addCue(
  new VTTCue(
    1,
    6,
    "Styles: Class markup: <b.myclass>bold</b> <u.myclass>underlined</u> <i.myclass>italic</i> <c.myclass>class</c>",
  ),
);
```

We then style all items with the `.myclass` class to light blue, except for the specific case of `c.myclass`, which is set to blue.

```css
video::cue(.myclass) {
  color: lightblue;
}

video::cue(c.myclass) {
  color: blue;
}
```

#### Styling using attributes

> The next two cues are displayed after three seconds.

Author: ```suggestion
The next two cues are displayed after two and then three seconds.
```

> The first displays a `v` (voice) tag with the "Bob" attribute, while the second displays text marked up with the `lang` tag for three locales of English.

Author: ```suggestion
The first displays text marked up with the `lang` tag for three locales of English, while the second displays a `<v>` (voice) tag with the "Bob" attribute.
```
